01/21/21
Notes on James Wiu Readme on Group project

Firstly, thanks James, for compiling such a thorough project scope!

After due review, kindly permit me to humbly suggest that the proposed approach for analysis, as that relates to the chosen data set, would only lead to conclusions that are already available in the public domain. In other words, we are proposing to do exhaustive analysis on data from the CDC just to reach conclusions that the CDC itself has already reached.

It is generally accepted by most by now that mask mandates work. While we can debate on whether our project might, at the end of the day at least determine to which extent mask mandates work, I doubt that such new conclusions we would reach would be substantive or consequential enough to merit time invested on our research.

Therefore, I propose that this project be expanded in scope to aim to reach conclusions that may not already be known. To wit:

(Kindly try and take time to thoroughly digest what I am trying to depict below, else the full weight of it may be missed)

---
The US Department of Health has recently published findings that vaccinated people are 27 times less likely to suffer serious debilitation or death from Covid 19 infections than people who are not vaccinated. Our analysis should aim to test this conclusion. As any insightful person would suspect, people who are vaccinated are likely to have been mindful of their health and maintained healthy habits even before the Covid era so the analysis that led to CDC's own conclusions about vaccine efficacy may be flawed.

Using our chosen data set, let us comparatively test deaths/hospitalizations for vaccinated versus unvaccinated and then comparatively analyze that for counties where strict mask mandates were in place versus counties where mask mandates were more relaxed. Our aim would be to find out whether these 1-27 disparity would be altered when we consider the possibility that factors like interpersonal health habits, prevalence of commodities, average level of education, mean house hold income etc may shake that 1-27 ratio.

---